# Flipper
Sample code for MSSE 655

I've never been good at learning something unless I write code in it. And I don't like writing code that has no particular use, so I always try to come up with a reason to write code. In this case, other than the obvious teaching application, I decided to write yet another Reversi game.
Here are a few zip files containing an application from start to finish (although I'm still working on it).
Some general comments/thoughts:
* Notice how things evolve as we get further along. Yes, some of it was contrived for teaching purposes but frequently it's how programmers learn as well. Try one thing, use it for a bit until something 'better' comes along
* Programs evolve, not only because one learns as one goes along but as use cases are added to a program and can effect how things are designed. Doesn't mean design shouldn't be done before hand, just that design can be, somewhat, fluid. Compare initial wireframe to final result as an example.
* We're not quite doing this in the order I'd do it in a project, again for teaching purposes. For example, I'd do the Navigation Drawer by selecting the Navigation Drawer Activity in Flipper1 but this way y'all can see the differences when it gets added in.
* Building and testing things in stages is one thing I do in both teaching, paid gigs and personal life. There are many reasons - easier to fix a small change than a large change, easier to debug a small change, etc...
* Sometimes (frequently) a early design decision has ramifications throughout the lifecycle of the code. In this case I choose ImageView over a Button with an image simply because I'd never used an ImageView before. I think either would have worked but ImageViews required some additional coding like figuring out which part of the grid to place a piece on when the mouse clicked on it.
* <insert your favorite search engine here> is your friend. There were many times I looked up how to do something (i.e. how to get the id of a specific ImageView). However, it's important to understand what/how the code snippet works because you *will* at some point, have to debug it or code that uses it.

## Flipper1.zip
Little more than the Basic Activity. 
* Every item does something, usually a toast, so I can confirm I've got everything being done and handled as I expect it to

## Flipper1a.zip
Modified Flipper1 to be more in line with what I expect a maintainable production product look like - i.e.:
* MyLog (my simple debug statements) - useful for figuring out what the program is doing. Perhaps not in Flipper1a but more in later versions.
* Improved on the comments (something that should be continously done)
* Changed text and icons to be what I want them to be
* Added history
Note there's no unit testing, mostly because we have nothing to test. But it's coming...

## Flipper2.zip
This is where functionality starts to appear and the program starts to get interesting. 
Although it still doesn't really do anything. At this point we're building the view and controller pieces
of MVC. Partly because that way we don't have to try and get a UI working at the same time we're trying
to get the game intelligence (model) working and partly because we can do demos this way. It's also
possible that we could have one group working on the UI and another group working on the game intelligence
hence the interfaces you see being created. Since it's just me doing this the interfaces aren't 
well fleshed out but were this separate groups you'd want to get them as complete as possible.

However, as is
pretty common, something external rises up to complicate the development process. In this ase it was 
Google's move to androidx - i.e. (from android site)
> Google is stopping support for com.android.support and prompts users to migrate to the new androidx equivalent.
> Note: With the release of Android 9.0 (API level 28) there is a new version of the support library called AndroidX which is part of Jetpack. The AndroidX library contains the existing support library and also includes the latest Jetpack components.
> You can continue to use the support library. Historical artifacts (those versioned 27 and earlier, and packaged as android.support.*) will remain available on Google Maven. However, all new library development will occur in the AndroidX library.
> We recommend using the AndroidX libraries in all new projects. You should also consider migrating existing projects to AndroidX as well.
Here is the official Migration (https://developer.android.com/jetpack/androidx/migrate ) guide and the corresponding library equivalents. 
Note that the projects generated by Android Studio do *not* use androidx. (Yet) 

(Run Refactor->Migrate to AndroidX...

* convert to androidx. I was 'forced' to migrate to androidx because some of the unit testing (i.e. Navigation Drawers) don't work otherwise.
* Create the various layouts needed to support the app
* Manifest
* Start creating some unit tests as well. 
* Ticker is a good one for unit testing. There's not enough of the program built to do any testing but using androidTest we can be sure it will work when we use it later on.


* The TicketTests unit test has already been useful. I had to change out the innerds three times to get something that worked the way I wanted.

## Flipper3.zip
fragments, indents, intent filters

* might notice things crop up that got overlooked in previous versions - i.e. (???) Rate didn't get tested in flipper2 so it's part of the testing now.
* note how tests are moving from their simple ones in ClickTests, etc... into more complex standalone tests

## Flipper4.zip
styles, themes, ActionBar, menus
* sometimes as you write you discover ways of fixing things - i.e. the wierdness that was in the Flipper3 version of testHelp() is gone because bugs in isDisplayed() were fixed.

## Flipper5.zip
NavBar
change to androidx to allow espresso testing on navigation drawer
discovered bug in RateIt - when RateIt is visible pressing back needs to be done twice, not just once

## Flipper6.zip
serialization / SQLite
* No computer ability but two human players can play against each other
* Moves are saved so 
 if something wierd happens that information can be sent to support (via the bug interface)
 I can play a game, take the moves and make them a unit test

## Flipper.zip
This the ‘real’ and ‘final’ application. Not ready to sell by any means but the version I’m updating, fixing, enhancing and playing. I code as a hobby, what can I say?
